in general we can use the empirical
counts of events in the observed data to
estimate the probabilities and a
commonly used technique is called a
maximum likelihood estimate where we
simply normalize the observed account so
if we do that we can see we can compute
these probabilities as follows for
estimating the probability that we see a
word occurring in a segment we simply
normalize the count of segments that
contain this work so let's first take a
look at the data here on the right side
you see I listed some hypothesizes the
data
these are segments and in some segments
you see both words occur they are
indicated as wise for both columns in
some other cases only one word occurred
so only that column has one and the
other column has zero and of course in
some other cases none of the words
occurred so they are both zeros and for
estimating these problem in they we
simply need to collect the three counts
so the three counts are first the count
of W 1 and that's the total number of
segments that contain water W 1 it's
just to the ones in the column of W 1 we
can just count how many ones we have
seen there the second encounter is
forward to and we just count the words
in the second column and these this
would give us a total number of segments
that contain W to the third count is
when both words occurred so this is time
we're going to count the segments where
both columns have once and then so this
would give us the total number of
segments where we have seen both W 1 and
W 2 once we have these counts we can
just normalize this comes by n which is
the total number of segments and this
will give us the probabilities that we
need to compute that
information now there is a small problem
when we have zero counts sometimes and
in this case we don't want a zero
probability because our data may be a
small sample and then in general we
would believe that it's potentially
possible for a word to occur in any
context to address this problem we can
use a technique called smoothy and
that's basically to add some small
constant to these counts and then and so
that we don't get a zero probability in
any case now the best way to understand
smoothing is managing that we actually
observe the more data than we actually
have we sort pretend we observe in some
pseudo segments that are associated on
the top on the right side on the slide
and these pseudo segments would
contribute additional counts of these
words so that no event that we have zero
probability probability now in
particular we introduce the four pseudo
segments each is weighted at one quarter
and these represent the four different
combinations of occurrences of these
words so now each event each combination
will have at least one count of
admissible and non zero comma from these
pseudo segments so in the actual
segments that we observed it's okay if
we have now observed all the
combinations so more specifically you
can see the point of five here actually
comes from the two ones in the two
pseudo segments because each is way to
the 1/4 we add them up we get 0.5 and
similarly this point 0 5 comes from one
single pseudo segment that indicates the
two words occur together and of course
in the denominator we add the total
number of pseudo segments that we added
in this case we add the four pseudo
segments each is weighted 1/4 so the
total of the son is after the 1 so
that's why in the denominator you see a
1 there so this basic
concludes the discussion of how to
compute the mutual information how to
use this for cynical America relation
discovered though so to summarize sin
after sin mathematical relation can
generally be discovered by measuring
correlations between occurrences of two
worlds we introduced the three concepts
from information theory entropy which
matches a certain a of a random variable
X conditional entropy which matches the
entropy of X given we know Y and mutual
information of x and y which measures
the entropy reduction of X due to
knowing why or entropy reduction on Y
due to knowing X they are the same so
these three concepts are actually very
useful for other applications as well
that's why we spend some time to explain
this in detail but in particular they
are also very useful for discovering
syntagmatic relations in particular
mutual information is a principal way
for discovering such a relation it
allows us to have values computer on
different pairs of words that are
comparable and so we can rank these
pairs and discover the strongest
cinematical relations from a collection
of documents now note that there is some
relation between syntactic or medical
relation discovery and the paradigmatic
a relation discovery so we already
discussed the possibility of using pm 25
to waiting for terms in the context to
potentially also suggest for candidates
and have seen a grammatical relations
with the candidate world but here once
we use mutual information to discover
cinematical relations we can also
represent the context with these mutual
information as weights so this would
give us another way to represent the
context of a word like a cat and if we
do the same for all the words then we
can cluster these words or computers
similarity between these words based
their context a similarity so this
provides yet another way to do term
waiting for paradigmatic relation
discovery and so to summarize this whole
part about the word association mining
we introduced the two basic associations
called a paradigmatic and the Signet
medical relations these are fairly
general they can be applied to any items
in any language so the unit's don't have
to be words that they can be phrases or
entities we introduce the multiple
statistic approaches for discovering
them they may showing that pure
statistical approaches are feasible
available for discovering both kinds of
religions and they can be combined to
perform join the analysis as well these
approaches can be applied to any text
with no human human effort mostly
because they are based on counting of
words yet they can actually discover
interesting relations of words we can
also use different ways to define
contexts and segments and this would
lead to some interesting variations of
applications for example the contents
can be very narrow like a few words
around the word or a sentence or maybe
paragraphs and using different the
context would allow you to discover
different flavors of paradigmatically
relations and similarly counting
co-occurrences using let's say mutual
information to discover senior
grammatical relations we also have to
define the segment and the segment can
be defined as a narrow text window or
longer text article and this would give
us different kinds of associations these
discovery associations can support many
other applications in both information
retrieval and text data mining so here
are some recommended readings if you
want to know more about the topic the
first is a book with a chapter on
locations which is quite relevant to the
topic of these lectures the second is
the article about the use
various statistical measures to discover
lexical atoms those are phrases that are
non-compensation compositional or for
example hot dog is not really a talk
that's hot
blue chip is not a chip that's blue and
the paper has a discussion about some
techniques for discovering such phrases
the third one is new paper on a unified
way to discover both parody America
releasing annasaheb America relations
using random walks on world graphs